---
title: "Yifeng LIU"
categories:
tags:
sidebar:
  - title: "Major"
    text: "Master in City Planning"
  - title: "keywords"
    text: "Data Minning, Optimization, Rainforcement Learning"
  - title: "Research Interest
    text: "computing for urban planning decision making."
  - title: "Abstract"
    text: "com"
author_profile: false
classes: wide

feature_row_1:
  - image_path: assets/images/portfolio/allocation-head.png
    alt: "placeholder image 1"
    title: <a href="https://lauyihong.github.io/portfolio/covid-allocation/">Allocating Covid Testing Stations in large-scale </a>
    excerpt: "Covid testing stations allocating optimization and decomposition in 2022 Lockdown Shanghai."

feature_row:
  - image_path: assets/images/portfolio/allocation-head.png
    alt: "placeholder image 1"
    title: <a href="https://lauyihong.github.io/portfolio/covid-allocation/">Allocating Covid Testing Stations in large-scale </a>
    excerpt: "Covid testing stations allocating optimization and decomposition in 2022 Lockdown Shanghai."
  - image_path: assets/images/portfolio/running-head.png
    alt: "placeholder image 1"
    title: <a href="https://lauyihong.github.io/portfolio/analysis-running/">Jogging Analysis</a>
    excerpt: "Analyzing jogging activity patterns and adaptation to public health regulation."
  - image_path: assets/images/portfolio/bjmap-head.png
    alt: "placeholder image 2"
    title: <a href="https://lauyihong.github.io/portfolio/cua-viz/">Beijing Infrastructure</a>
    excerpt: "Analyzing local virbrancy, running activity, and real estate prices in Beijing."
  - image_path: assets/images/portfolio/shanghai-head.png
    alt: "placeholder image 1"
    title: <a href="https://lauyihong.github.io/portfolio/quantify-street/">Streets and Real Estate</a>
    excerpt: "Investigating the impact of perceived micro-level neighborhood characteristics on housing prices in Shanghai"
  - image_path: assets/images/portfolio/map-head.png
    alt: "placeholder image 1"
    title: <a href="https://lauyihong.github.io/portfolio/perception-map/">Street Computer Vision</a>
    excerpt: "Research on citizen streetscape evaluation based on crowd sourcing survey and the application of navigation optimization."
  - image_path: assets/images/portfolio/informal-head.png
    alt: "placeholder image 1"
    title: <a href="https://lauyihong.github.io/portfolio/informal-map/">Informal-Mapping</a>
    excerpt: "Computing places and human activity in data-absent informal urban settlements."
gallery:
  - url: /assets/images/portfolio/IMG_7673.jpeg
    image_path: /assets/images/portfolio/IMG_7673.jpeg
    alt: "placeholder image 1"
    title: "before path"
  - url: /assets/images/portfolio/IMG_7675.jpeg
    image_path: /assets/images/portfolio/IMG_7675.jpeg
    alt: "placeholder image 2"
    title: "after path"
---

{% assign stylesheet = page.skin | default: 'light' | prepend: '/assets/css/' | append: '.css' %}
<link rel="stylesheet" href="{{ stylesheet | relative_url }}">


<style>
    body {
        font-size: 90%; 
    }
</style>

**Abstract**

Urban Science is a new field that combines urban planning and data science. In the past few years,

I have been working on a series of research projects that focus on the application of data science and optimization algorithms in urban planning and design. My research interests include data mining, optimization, and reinforcement learning. I am particularly interested in developing computational models and algorithms to support urban planning decision-making processes.

I grow strong interest in computing for urban planning decision making. In my undergraduate years, I have reseached in serious of project in mining the urabn inforstucture or markteing via diffetenct methods accross traditional CV, segration and trajectories mining.

<span id="articles-section" style="font-size: 1.2em; font-weight: bold;">Research & Design Experiences</span><br><br>
{% include feature_row_1 %}

Since I started my graduate studies at MIT, I strat to dive into methodology and algorithm development studies. I have learned courses accross optimization, machine learning, and transportattion simulation(reinforcement learning). ... I found there is serious of works we can do in this field.

But now I am confused: If I am interested in the impact of computational algorithm research on urban construction, which path should I choods. Should I pursue a PHD? Because the relevant research-level positions in the United States require a PhD degree for internship; Or should I go straight back to the Chinese industry for work practice? Or should I start a business? I now have a team doing some small trials with sandbox support, and I'm back home for spring break talking to alumni investors and I've got a lot of verbal commitments.

I am more confused now because I am not familiar with the industrial environment in the United States.


<span id="articles-section" style="font-size: 1.2em; font-weight: bold;">Research & Design Experiences</span><br><br>
{% include feature_row %}


This file is the brainstorming draft of PathBy project.

the idea start from a previours project [Portal](https://lauyihong.github.io/portfolio/metro-ar/) 

# Business Plan Draft 1.0

In short: trafic path based facility recommendation system



imagine a world that you don't need to travel away to a crowded restaurant, but the dilicious will suddenly appear around you.  new events!! new restaurants!! new friends!! new opportunities!! new life!!



It's a new Yelp, not recommend you to visit a place, but bring the diliciours around you.



it's like a new Uber, not for taxi, but for facilities.


{% include gallery caption="diagrams" %}


## Problem

even if people live in city for years, travel through the city for 2 hours per day, they will only know about 3 groups of facilities: 

    1. facilities around their home
    2. facilities around their work place
    3. facilities recommended by Ins and Yelp.

we can see that these three group pointer to 3 different kinds of urban functions: residential, work,and commercial. Usually, if someone want to go hangout with friends, he/she will go to the facilities around his/her home, or the facilities recommended by Ins and Yelp. the first one is limitated area, and the second one will cause huge traffic load.

The way people use facilities and the spatial correlation is weak, resulting in a lot of extra traffic demand and facility load on the basis of necessary traffic.

Maybe its a very Megacity problem? some more Asin area studies will help. 



## Solution

### product 1: metro advertisement system

at the first stage, due to lake of personal data, we will focus on the metro advertisement system: with metro system and POI around metro stations, we can build the system, and will recommend facilities to people based on their OD trafic path.

### product 2: personal facility recommendation application

as more and more people use our product, we will have more and more personal data, and we can build a personal facility recommendation application based on individual interest and daily path: recommend your future dinner plan!

### based algorithm

recommend facilities to people based on OD trafic path

### objective function:

Local index (need research support): extra distance consumption is the shortest; The highest recommended cumulative index

Overall indicator: Highest utilization rate of facilities, lowest traffic load.



## Company purpose

Based on people's trafic partten in Megacities, recommend facilities to them.

**to customer:** 

With this product, we will help people to save time and energy on finding facilities, and help facilities to get more customers.

**to city:** 

- A soft way of facility assolotation - for RealEstate economy; 
- reduce the traffic load caused by - people's extra trafic demand for far away facilities;

**to commercial facilities:** a new way of advertisement! more chance and more space for your new opportunities! 



## Market Size

(based on the research on 'Problem' part , show the portential martket and its influence)

## Competition
Google map(Gaode Map)

Yelp(Meituan)

## Business Model

...

## Team

### Yifeng

MIT DUSP MCP student 25'

2023, Gratudted from Tsinghua University, School of Architecture. 

Urban informatics researcher. Research interest on facility management and  Currently work on a project about the local optimization of facaility allocation problem. with wild experience about the inforstructure distribution analysis. 

### Ceci

Harvard GSD Mdes-public 25'

[education bg]

[short bio]

### I'm looking for:

engineer: 

- who have strong skillset in transporation system analysis, and optimization. I can do that but im good engough to do that alone.
- have skill set in spatial database or distributed computing
  - ML skillset of course, especially DL and large scale

CFO: no reason. 

## some questions/todo I have now:

- which city should I start with in demo?

- should I builid this project with academic research (show its social impact and more science based optimization algoroithm development) or just a startup (demo or die)?

- Singepore is too small for our project? where should be the market research base?
  
- market research
- prototype and test with users
- business model

## 
